# owsim: an LSST triggered observing over-write simulator

In June of 2018, the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) project
issued a call for whitepapers requesting input on observing strategy,
together with a set of reference results for different strategies, as
simulated by LSST’s opsim application. The project has previously
released and supports an application for analyzing such results,
MAF. Owsim is a tool for generating minor modifications to the
reference results so some types of minor changes in strategy may be
evaluated using the same tool (MAF) without the need to produce
complete opsim simulations. The specific modification included in the
initial version of owsim is for triggered follow-up of transient
events, but some elements of the package have more general application.

## Workflow

The basic stages in the workflow are:

1. Obtain a cable of LSST field ids and coordinates;
2. generate a list of random events on which to trigger (with
   coordinates and times);
3. generate a set of LSST visits to be used to follow up each event;
4. calculate or simulate conditions for each visit; and
4. insert these follow-up visits in an existing opsim output database,
   removing pre-existing visits that collide with the follow-up ones.

## Individual steps

### Getting LSST field ids and coordinates

The Makefile included in this package can retrieve field ids and
coordinates from the LSST github repository and format them for use by
other program in this package:

```
make data/munged/fieldID.txt
```

### Generating random trigger events

The `random_events.py` program generates random events. It can be
called thus:

```
python $OWSIM_DIR/python/random_events.py events.conf events.txt
```

The `events.conf` file provides most of the parameters needed for
event generation; an example can be found in
`$OWSIM_DIR/etc/events.conf`. The program will produce `events.txt`, a
text table of events.

Note that `random_events.py` can be used to generate multiple episodes
(instances of the survey) in a single execution.

### Generating a table of LSST follow-up visits

The `followup.py` program generates a set of visits to follow up on a
set of events. It can be called thus:

```
python $OWSIM_DIR/python/followup.py \
  followup.conf \
  events.txt \
  ${OWSIM_DIR}/data/munged/fieldID.txt \
  visits.txt
```

The `followup.conf` file provides most of the parameters needed for
visit generation; an example can be found in
`$OWSIM_DIR/etc/followup.conf`. `events.txt` is the text table
generated by `random_events.py`. The program will produce
`visits.txt`, a table of LSST visits.

### Get conditions for each visit

The `visitcond.py` program calculates or simulations conditions for each
visit, where "conditions" refers to parameters like seeing, sky
brightness, and cloud level. It can be called thus:

```
python $OWSIM_DIR/python/visitcond.py visitcond.conf visits.txt conditions.txt
```

The `visitcond.conf` file provides most of the parameters needed for
conditions calculation; an example can be found in
`$OWSIM_DIR/etc/visitcond.conf`. `visits.txt` is the text table produced
by `followup.py`. The program will produce `conditions.txt`, a text
table with conditions for each visit.

### Insert new visits into an existing database, replacing colliding visits

The `owsched.py` program reads a reference database of opsim output
and a table of visits with conditions, and writes a new database that
includes the new visits, removing any overlapping visits in the
reference database. It can be called thus:

```
python $OWSIM_DIR/python/owsched.py \
  reference_opsim4_output.db \
  conditions.txt \
  overwritten.db
```

Where `reference_opsim4_output.db` is the opsim4 database into which
the new visits should be inserted and `conditions.txt` is a text table
of the visits to be insterted (with conditions).